<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML+RDFa 1.0//EN" 
   "http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/DTD/xhtml-rdfa-1.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"       
      xmlns:foaf="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/"
      xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#"
      xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/terms/"
      lang="en" xml:lang="en"> 
<head> 
  <title>The necessity of Hypermedia RDF and an approach to achieve it</title> 
  <meta name="copyright" 
   content="Copyright &#169; 2012 Kjetil Kjernsmo Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike" /> 
  <meta name="duration" content="45" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen, projection, print" 
   href="http://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/styles/slidy.css" /> 
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen, projection, print" 
   href="http://dev.kjernsmo.net/talks/kjetil-blue.css" /> 
  <script src="http://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/scripts/slidy.js" 
   charset="utf-8" type="text/javascript"></script> 
  <style type="text/css"> 
    li .factor { padding-left : 2em; padding-right: 1em; }
  </style> 
</head>
<body>

<div class="slide cover title">

  <h1 rel="dc:title">The necessity of Hypermedia RDF and an approach to achieve it</h1>
  
  <p resource="http://www.kjetil.kjernsmo.net/foaf#me" typeof="foaf:Person">
    <a href="mailto:kjetil@kjernsmo.net" rel="foaf:mbox" property="foaf:name">Kjetil Kjernsmo</a> &lt;kjetil@kjernsmo.net&gt;.
  </p>

  <p typeof="foaf:Organization">
    Ph.D. Research Fellow,
    <a rel="foaf:member" href="http://www.kjetil.kjernsmo.net/foaf#me"/>
    <a href="http://www.mn.uio.no/ifi/" rel="foaf:homepage" property="foaf:name">Department of Informatics, University of Oslo, Norway</a>
  </p>
        
  



  <p style="position:absolute; right:50px; bottom:100px; font-size: 10px">  
    <a href="" property="cc:attributionName">Kjetil Kjernsmo</a>
    <a rel="cc:license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/no/">Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Norway License</a>.
  </p>
  
</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>About me</h1>

<ul>
  <li>Got interested in the Semantic Web in 1998.</li>
  <li>Started working on a Semantic CMS in 2002.</li>
  <li>Put up the first big public SPARQL Endpoint with real data from Opera Community in 2005</li>
  <li>Other Opera Community work is cited in timbl's <a href="http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/LinkedData">Linked Data Design Issue</a></li>
  <li>Member of W3C groups WCL XG, POWDER WG, SWEO IG, eGov IG and SPARQL 1.1 WG.</li>
  <li>In SWEO IG, took the initiative to and managed the Community Projects, out of which the Linking Open Data project was one.</li>
  <li>In SPARQL WG, edited the Features and Requirements Note</li>
  <li>Worked on Semantic Web technologies on several projects for Computas AS.</li>
  <li>Has connections to developer communities and contributes to Semantic Web in Perl</li>
  <li>...but my academic training is in theoretical astrophysics.</li>
</ul>
</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>Motivations</h1>

<ul class="incremental">
 <li>Nebulous thoughts around the developer communities <small>(e.g. <a href="http://caines.ca/blog/programming/the-sun-is-setting-on-rails-style-mvc-frameworks/">The Sun is Setting on Rails-style MVC Frameworks</a>)</small></li>
 <li>Dissatisfaction with the SPARQL Graph Store specification.</li>
 <li>Linked Data needs to be more read-write.</li>
 <li>Semantic Web needs to be more fun, interesting and productive.</li>
</ul>

</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>What can I do to Knossos?</h1>

<p>
Consider
<a href="http://dbpedia.org/data/Knossos"><tt>http://dbpedia.org/data/Knossos</tt></a>
</p>

<p>
With this URI I can get a description of Knossos with links so that I
can get more data and more links!
</p>

<ul class="incremental">
<li>Wow.</li>
<li>How exciting.</li>
</ul>

<p class="incremental">
Seriously, this is where we were at least 5 years ago!
</p>

</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>What do I want to do?</h1>


<ul class="incremental">
<li>To look up the vocabulary used to describe Knossos.</li>
<li>To edit or augment the data.</li>
<li>To query the data (with SPARQL).</li>
</ul>

</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>How can I do that?</h1>

<ul class="incremental">
  <li>Guess that the namespace URIs can be derefenced (if I have them).</li>
  <li>Perhaps I can try a POST, DELETE or PUT? (what would the POST do?)</li>
  <li>Somewhere there might be a endpoint? Perhaps if I find the VoID description...</li>
</ul>

<p class="incremental">
If only it had been done RESTfully...
</p>

</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>What is this REST thing?</h1>

<!-- REST is hard because the constraints don't map to a section -->

<div class="incremental">
<blockquote>
  <p>
  REST is defined by four interface constraints: identification of
  resources; manipulation of resources through representations;
  self-descriptive messages; and, <strong>hypermedia as the engine of
  application state</strong>.
  </p> <cite><a href="http://www.ics.uci.edu/~fielding/pubs/dissertation/rest_arch_style.htm#sec_5_1_5">Roy Fielding</a></cite>
</blockquote>

<p>
My emphasis: Note the HATEOAS constraint!
</p>

</div>

<div class="incremental">
<h3>The take-away:</h3>
<p>
Don't make developers look up the spec!
</p>
</div>

</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>Linked Data is RESTful, right?</h1>

<p>Some suggest that Linked Data is inherently RESTful since RDF serializations are hypermedia types.</p>

<p class="incremental">My answer: Not really, it depends...</p>

<!-- No straitjacket. If all you want to do is read-only follow-your-nose navigation in data with known vocabularies, then yes -->

<p class="incremental">What did I want to do?</p>
<div  class="incremental">
<ul>
<li>To look up the vocabulary used to describe Knossos.</li>
<li>To edit or augment the data.</li>
<li>To query the data (with SPARQL).</li>
</ul>
</div>

<!-- if it can't do this, it isn't RESTful -->

<p class="incremental">RESTfulness must be judged on the basis of applications.</p>

<!-- It needs to help you do all you need to do -->

</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>Turning RDF into a Hypermedia Type</h1>

<p>First, RDF isn't a media type, serializations are.</p>

<p>Mike Amundsen defines <a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/">hypermedia types</a> as:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>
Hypermedia Types are MIME media types that contain native
hyper-linking semantics that induce application flow. For example,
HTML is a hypermedia type; XML is not.
</p>
</blockquote>


</div>

<div class="slide">
<h1>Mike Amundsen's "H Factor" classification</h1>

<!-- Very nice guidance -->

<ol>
  <li>Link Support</li>
  
  <ul>
    <li><span class="factor">[LE]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#le" title="Embedding">Embedding links</a></li>
    <li><span class="factor">[LO]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#lo" title="Outbound Links">Outbound links</a></li>
    <li><span class="factor">[LT]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#lt" title="Templated queries">Templated queries</a></li>
    <li><span class="factor">[LN]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#ln" title="Non-idempotent updates">Non-Idempotent updates</a></li>
    
    <li><span class="factor">[LI]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#li" title="Idempotent updates">Idempotent updates</a></li>
  </ul>
  <li>Control Data Support</li>
  <ul>
    <li><span class="factor">[CR]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#cr" title="Control data for reads">Control data for read requests</a></li>
    <li><span class="factor">[CU]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#cu" title="Control data for updates">Control data for update requests</a></li>
    
    <li><span class="factor">[CM]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#cm" title="Control data for methods">Control data for interface methods</a></li>
    <li><span class="factor">[CL]</span><a href="http://amundsen.com/hypermedia/hfactor/#cl" title="Control data for links">Control data for links</a></li>
  </ul>
</ol>

<p>(Shameless copy'n'paste).</p>


</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>
<div class="slide">

</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>

<div class="slide">

</div>

<!-- TODO
* Derive the media type
* New factors
- Vocabulary
* Weaknesses of RDF
* Goals for a vocab
* Bring member submission draft
* Code

-->

</body>
</html>
